  IT her wasn anecdotals. t even Halloween The word, yet, with but all Ms. its expectations Hempel was already of intimacy thinking and speci- about
 her anecdotals. The word, with all its expectations of intimacy and speci-
 ficity, bothered her: a noun in the guise of an adjective, an obfuscation of
 the fact that twice a year she had to produce eighty-two of these ineluctable
 things. Not reports, like those written by other teachers at other schools, but
 anecdotals: loving and detailed accounts of a students progress, enlivened by
 descriptions of the child offering a piercing insight or aiding a struggling class-
 mate or challenging authority. It was a terrible responsibility: to render, in a
 recognizable way, something as ineffable as another human being, particularly
 a young one. On average she would spend an hour writing about each child,
 and then waste up to another hour rereading what she had just written, in the
 hopes that her words might suddenly reveal themselves as judicious. But too
 often Ms. Hempels anecdotals reminded her of those blurry portraits from
 photography's early days: is that a hand I see? A bird? The sitter has squirmed,
 readjusted her skirts, swatted at a fly: she is no longer a child, but a smudge of
 light. This is how Ms. Hempels students appeared, captured in her anecdotals:
 bright and beautiful and indistinct.
 The cubicle where she now sat, peeling an orange, would, in less than two
 months, become a Faculty Work Station. Other faculty members would sit in
 the work stations next to hers; they would peer over and say, "Don't kill yourself.
 You re not writing a novel." But now there was only Mr. Polidori, humming
 faintly and balancing equations.
 The science and math teachers had it easy. During anecdotal season, Ms.
 Hempel would berate her younger, student self: she never should have turned
 away from the dark and gleaming surfaces of the lab. She had chosen instead
 the squishy embrace of the humanities, where nothing was quantifiable and


  
 absolute, and now she was paying for all th
 circles and talking about novels. Mrs. Beasl
 ment, had perfected an anecdotal formula: she
 indicated whether his ability to divide fraction
 matter of concern," and then ended with eithe
 whichever seemed more appropriate. The for
 an English teacher. Ms. Hempel could not co
 lary or plodding sentences without putting 
 her own. Because there was always that skep
 believe that she could do all the things that
 sentence structure," "incorporate metaphor
 if she were a fleshy coach who relaxes on 
 panting around the gym.
 So the anecdotals must be beautiful. But she didn t want them to sound
 florid or excessive. She didn't want to sound insincere. (Oh, superlatives! Ms.
 Hempels undoing.) She wanted to offer up tiny, exact, tender portraits of the
 children she taught, like those miniature paintings that Victorians would keep
 inside their lockets, along with a wisp of hair. And though she would fail to do
 so every time, she had not resigned herself to failure, could not experience that
 relief; every December and every May she would sit down to write, dogged by
 the fear that she would misrepresent a child, or that through some grievous
 grammatical error, some malapropism, some slip, she would expose herself and
 by her own hand reveal the hoax.
 "If I started my anecdotals this afternoon, I would have to write only one
 and a half a day. That sounds manageable."
 "Recycle," Mr. Polidori said, from the depths of his cubicle.
 "I do recycle," Ms. Hempel said. "I make my kids recycle, too."
 Mr. Polidori s face appeared above her. "Use your anecdotals from last
 year. Just insert new names - if you go under Edit, then slide your arrow down
 to Replace, its quite straightforward."
 "Oh," she said. "I cant do it. Because the material is all new this year.
 They're not reading A Light in the Forest anymore. Or April Morning. But it's a
 wonderful idea." This possibility had never occurred to her.
 For the new seventh grade curriculum, Ms. Hempel picked a book that had
 many swear words in it. She felt an attraction to swear words, just as she did
 to cable television, for both had been forbidden in her youth. Her father had
 


  
 considered swear words objectionable on the gr
 ness. "Everyone uses the same old expletives o
 "And you are not everyone." He grasped her cr
 squeezed, as if testing a cantaloupe at the farmers
 he declared.
 But to Ms. Hempel, swear words were beautiful precisely because they
 were ordinary, just as gum snapping and hair flipping were beautiful. She once
 longed to become a gum-snapping, foul-mouthed person, a person who could
 describe every single thing as fucking and not even realize she was doing it.
 In this, she never succeeded. When she read This Boys Life , when she saw
 shit and even fuck on the page, she quietly thrilled. Then she ordered copies for
 the seventh grade.
 "First impressions?" she asked, perched atop her desk, her legs swinging.
 "What do you think?"
 The seventh graders looked at each other uneasily. They had read the
 opening chapter for homework. A few stroked the books' covers, of which
 they had already declared their approval; it was sleek and muted. Grown-up.
 A cover that promised they were venturing into new territory: no more shiny
 titles, endorsements from the American Library Association, oil paintings of
 teenagers squinting uncertainly into the distance.
 "Do you like it?" Ms. Hempel tried again. She smiled entreatingly; her
 shoes banged against her desk. Teaching, she now understood, was a form of
 extortion; you were forever trying to extract from your students something
 they didn't want to part with: their attention, their labor, their trust.
 David D'Souza, ladies man, came to her assistance. Even though he was
 a little chubby and overcurious about sex, he was a very popular boy in the
 seventh grade. He had gone out with a lot of girls. He walked down the hall-
 ways with the rolling, lopsided gait of the rappers that he so fervently admired.
 In the classroom, his poise deserted him; he sputtered a lot, rarely delivering
 coherent sentences. He batted away his ideas just as they were escaping from
 his mouth.
 But David was a gentleman, and ready to sacrifice his own dignity in
 order to rescue Ms. Hempels. Cooperative and responsive , she thought. Willing
 to take risks.
 "Its like . . ." he began, and stopped. Ms. Hempel smiled at him, nodding
 furiously, as if pumping the gas pedal on a car that wouldn't start. "Its . . ." He
 grabbed his upper lip with his bottom teeth. He ground his palm into the
 desk. The other kids delicately averted thei
 ing the covers of their books. "Its . . . differe
 school."
 The class exhaled: yes, it was different. Th
 quite trust it, particularly the boys, as if the
 cious about a book whose characters seemed
 to be a good kid, but couldn't stop getting 
 lot, but wasn't above manipulating her into
 was all uncannily familiar. They were also 
 his struggles: there was no sign that soon T
 in the wilderness, or traveling into the fut
 disaster.
 "It doesn't really sound like a book," s
 child, aspiring trapeze artist, lover of Mar
 gifted.
 "I normally dont like books," said Henry Woo, sad sack, hanger-on,
 misplacer of entire backpacks. Ms. Hempel would write, has difficulty concen-
 trating.
 "Its okay for us to be reading this?" said Simon Grosse, who needed to
 ask permission for everything. Ms. Hempel would write, conscientious.
 On Parents Night, Ms. Hempel felt fluttery and damp. She knew, from past
 experience, that she would make a burlesque of herself, that her every sentence
 would end with an exclamation point, and her hands would fly about wildly
 and despairingly, like two bats trapped inside a bedroom. The previous year,
 a boy named Zachary Bouchet had reported, "My mother says that you smile
 too much."
 In the faculty room, Mr. Polidori threw an arm around her and whispered,
 "Just pretend they're naked."
 That was the last thing Ms. Hempel wanted to imagine.
 Instead, she decided to picture her own parents sitting in front of her. She
 pictured her mother, who would make them late because she misplaced the
 car keys; and her father, who would station himself in the front row and ask
 embarrassing questions. Embarrassing not in their nature, but embarrassing
 simply because he had asked them. Her father liked to attract attention. "Ni
 hao ma!" he would greet the waiters at the Chinese restaurant. "Yee-haw!" he
 would whoop at the fourth grade square dance recital. "Where's the defense?"
  he would wail from the sidelines of soccer g
 sing out, the first to rise to his feet. Ms. Hempe
 standing ovations, all induced by her beaming
 Each of these parents, Ms. Hempel told her
 were. A mother began: "This book they're re
 anyone else was troubled by the language."
 Ms. Hempel smiled bravely at the instigato
 up," she said, and reminded herself: this wom
 This woman is always running late.
 A classroom of parents, squeezed into the sa
 occupied during the day, looked at Ms. Hemp
 She couldn't say, Your kids are okay with m
 Instead she said, "When I chose this book, I
 in the Rye. Because every time I teach Catche
 I'm witnessing the most astonishing thing. It
 in a socket and all their hair is standing on end. 
 What they're responding to, I think, is the im
 narrator's voice. And part of what makes Ho
 the language he uses. This book's impact on th
 on the ones who don't like to read, who don't
 up to them all of literature's possibilities. Its 
 ences."
 Ms. Hempel paused, surprised. She had rec
 "I thought to myself, shouldn't the sevent
 that? That shock of recognition?"
 And she meant it, in a way, now that she had
 What happened then? Ms. Hempel doubted
 her speech. Perhaps an insurgency had bee
 concerned mother, who probably hijacked PT
 suggesting another bake sale. Maybe they he
 their own parents, or they believed on princ
 dirty. Maybe sitting in the plastic desk-chair
 felt like.
 One after another, the parents began describing their children: She talks
 about it at dinner. He takes it with him into the bathroom. You don't under-
 stand - the last thing that she enjoyed reading was the PlayStation manual.
 They spoke in wonder.
 


  
 At night, I hear him chuckling in his b
 to read it, that hell loan me his copy whe
 the movie for her, she said that she didn t w
 "I knew it!" a father announced. "It was ju
 book."
 And the parents nodded again, as if the
 "Well done!" Another father, sitting in
 smiled at Ms. Hempel. Three more giddy 
 Ms. Hempel, standing at the front of t
 wanted to throw a kiss. She wanted to say
 And then it occurred to her: perhaps w
 her father had made someone else - a squ
 the seventh grade production of The Pirat
 The next morning, in homeroom, Ms. Hem
 from her crippling backpack. "Your dad," 
 presence."
 "Benevolent?" Cilia Matsui asked.
 Ms. Hempel always used big words when she spoke; they also appeared
 frequently in her anecdotals, words like acuity and perspicacious. It was all
 part of her ambitious schemes for vocabulary expansion. Most kids only took
 interest in new words if they felt they had something personal at stake. "You re
 utterly depraved, Patrick," she would say. "No, I wont. Look it up. There are
 about six of them sitting in the library."
 So Adelaides comments were astute. Gloria had an agile mind. Rasheeďs
 spelling was irreproachable. Even those who weren't academically inclined
 deserved a dazzling adjective. David D'Souza, for instance, was chivalrous.
 These words, Ms. Hempel knew, were now permanently embedded. Even after
 the last layer of verbal detritus had settled, they would still be visible, winking
 brightly: yes, I was an iconoclastic thinker.
 Because one never forgets a compliment. "You looked positively beatific
 during the exam," Miss Finnegan, her tenth grade English teacher, had told her.
 "Staring out the window, a secret little smile on your face. I was worried, to tell
 the truth. But then you turned in the best of the bunch."
 Thus, beatific - blissful, saintly, serenely happy - was forever and irrevo-
 cably hers. She shared the new word with her father; she showed him the grade
 she had received. Aha, he said, with great vindication. Aha!
 


  
 Uncomplimentary words, however, seemed
 plimentary ones. That wasn't it, exactly. But wh
 would suddenly, unexpectedly, descend upon her,
 like a solitary cherry blossom, words of criticism
 able fixtures in the landscape: fire hydrants, cha
 sculptures. They were useful, though, as landm
 say to her father: Mr. Ziegler. White hair. He m
 when that failed, she would say: Don't you rem
 who called me lackadaisical.
 Her mothers memory was terrible, but her father could always be
 counted on. In his neat, reliable way, he sorted and shelved all the slights she
 had endured. Oh yes, he'd say. Mr. Ziegler . Looking back on those conversations,
 she wondered if perhaps it was unfair to make him revisit the unhappy scene
 of her high school career. Remembering old criticisms is only fun once they
 have been proven laughably incorrect. Fractions! the famous mathematician
 hoots: Mrs. Beasley said I was hopeless at fractions!
 When her father died, a year ago that spring, Ms. Hempel had spoken at
 his memorial service, along with her brother and sister. Calvin talked about a
 day they went hiking together in Maine, and Maggie, before she started crying,
 remembered how he used to read aloud to her, every night before she went to
 bed. Ms. Hempels story sounded unsentimental by comparison. She described
 her father picking her up from play practice, when she was maybe fourteen or
 fifteen. It was winter, and too cold to wait for the bus. Before parking the car
 in the garage, he would deposit her at the backdoor, so that she wouldn't have
 to walk through the slush. As she balanced her way up the path, he would flick
 his headlights on and off. The beams cast shadows across the lawn, making
 everything seem bigger than it really was: the randy cat, her mother s beloved
 gazebo, the fur sprouting from the hood of her parka. Right before she reached
 the door, she would turn around and wave at him. She couldn't see him, because
 the headlights were too bright, but she could hear him. Click, click. Click, click.
 Only after she stepped inside would he steer the car back out of the driveway.
 When Ms. Hempel finished speaking, she looked out at her family. They
 looked back at her expectantly, waiting to hear the end of the story. The last
 time she stood on this pulpit, many years before, she had received the same
 anxious look. She was the narrator for the Christmas pageant, and though she
 had spoken her part clearly and with dramatic flourish, she forgot to say her
 final line: "So the three wise men followed the star of Bethlehem." A long pause
 


  
 followed, and then the three wise men stumble
 force had propelled them.
 For the rest of the pageant, she had to stay 
 she was supposed to look down on the mang
 expression; instead, she watched the other ch
 else to make a mistake more terrible than her own. No one did. It could have
 happened to anyone, her mother would tell her, but she knew differently: it
 could have happened only to her. During her narration, she had fastened her
 eyes on the choir loft, but as she neared the end, in anticipation of the delicious
 relief that she would soon feel, she allowed her gaze to slip down onto the con-
 gregation below. There she saw her father, leaning forward very slightly, and
 holding onto the pew in front of him. He was smiling at her. Hugely. She lost
 her bearings entirely.
 Now, standing in the same pulpit, she looked out at her family as they
 waited hopefully for a final paragraph. She looked at them in defiance: Thats
 all! He clicked the headlights on and off. The End. And she wished something
 that she used to never wish: that her father was there, on the edge of his pew.
 He would have liked the story; it would have made sense to him.
 "Is being benevolent a good thing or a bad thing?" Cilia Matsui asked.
 "A good thing!" said Ms. Hempel. "Benevolent means generous and
 kind."
 "Oh yes," Cilia said. "That sounds like my dad."
 Dwight, Toby s stepfather, was the character in the book that her kids despised
 most. They shuddered at the humiliations that he made Toby endure: shucking
 whole boxes full of foul-smelling horse chestnuts, attending Boy Scouts in a
 secondhand uniform, playing basketball in street shoes because he wouldn't
 fork out the money for sneakers. They hated him for coming between Toby
 and his mother. They hated him for being petty and insecure and cruel.
 "Dwight . . ." they would mutter helplessly. "I want to kill the guy."
 As Toby s situation worsened, they would turn over their books and study
 the author s photograph: his handsome, bushy mustache, his gentle eyes. "He
 teaches at Syracuse," they would point out. "He lives with his family in upstate
 New York."
 They loved these facts, because reading about the abusive stepdad, the
 failures at school, the yearnings to escape, to be someone else - it made them
 


  3I
 feel terrible. "He had such a tough life," they 
 really tough life."
 But, according to the back of the book, To
 in the felicitous pairing of picture and blurb,
 became a writer! He didn t turn into a drunk 
 ised that it was possible to weather unhappy 
 to do lots of bad things and have lots of bad
 damage would not be irreparable. Often, a pa
 Toby s struggles would conclude with this com
 a famous and successful writer." Tobias Wolff.
 Fame and success: did that count as reveng
 lively sense of justice. They wanted to see Dwi
 to Toby and his mother, for all the pain he h
 climactic, preferably violent, showdown betw
 Barring that, they wanted Dwight to suffer, in 
 The fact that he had to live with the meagern
 considered punishment enough.
 "He s probably read the book, right?" Will 
 "And he knows that Tobys a famous writer
 They relished this idea: Dwight as an unre
 down to the liquor mart, pausing by the brilli
 there's Toby. Mustached, mischievous Toby, the s
 cover, only much larger. A careful pyramid of h
 sky. Number One Bestseller, the sign reads. 
 man can hear the faint slamming of the cash reg
 taking their place in line. And he can make ou
 and rheumy, the title of the book that they hold
 "If hes read it, he knows that millions of p
 Which would mean, of course, banishment 
 papers from his latest wife. Bushels of hate m
 door. Furtive trips to the convenience store,
 over his head.
 "Well," said Ms. Hempel. "I think hes dead already."
 A howl filled the classroom.
 "Usually writers don t publish this kind of book until the main characters
 have all passed away. So peoples feelings don t get hurt."
 


  
 Dwight, cold in the ground before the bo
 was the greatest unfairness of all.
 "And Rosemary? She's dead? She didn't ge
 son is? She didn t get to see how well he turne
 terribly unjust.
 "No, no," Ms. Hempel said. "Rosemary is 
 front pages of your book - he thanks her, h
 certain facts, on the chronology of the events.
 "Good." The class looked relieved. "Okay."
 An opportunity for moral inquiry presented
 book about your life," Ms. Hempel asked, "an
 tering light, would you wait until that perso
 book?"
 The kids didn t see her point. "I couldn't write a book. I dont have enough
 to write about," Simon Grosse said.
 "Thats not true!" said Ms. Hempel. "Each of you could write a book. Sev-
 eral books, in fact." She tried to remember what Flannery O'Connor had said
 on the subject. "Anyone who's made it through childhood has enough material
 to last them until the day they die."
 "We haven t made it through yet," Henry Woo said.
 "But you will," said Ms. Hempel. "And when you do, youll have lots to
 write about. Everyone does interesting things when they're kids."
 "And bad things, like Toby?"
 "And bad things. Everyone has, even if everyone won't admit it."
 The kids waited for a moment, as if they needed, for politeness' sake, to
 make a show of digesting this information.
 "Did you do bad things, Ms. Hempel?"
 She should have expected it.
 "Well. Be logical. Everyone includes me, doesn't it?"
 Greedily, the kids leaned forward. "What kinds of bad things?" The back
 legs of desk-chairs rose into the air.
 Ms. Hempel heaved an enormous sigh of resignation. She let her arms
 drop heavily to her sides. "You really want to know?" she groaned, as if she were
 finally, under great duress, capitulating to their demands. "You're really going
 to make me do this?" In truth, she loved talking about herself. Especially to her
 students.
 All heads nodded vigorously.
 


  33
 "I watched tv when I wasn't supposed to. And
 past my curfew."
 The back legs returned to the floor. "Thats it?
 "I wasn t always considerate of my parents."
 David D'Souza offered her a wan smile.
 "And I pierced my nose with a sewing needle," Ms. Hempel said. "My
 mother turned her face away every time I walked into the room, like she does
 when she s watching a violent movie. She was furious at me."
 "Caroline Pratt pierced her bellybutton," Adelaide observed. Caroline was
 an eighth grader. "She didn't even use ice."
 Ms. Hempel shuffled through her collected misdeeds, trying to find ones
 that she could, in good conscience, share with seventh graders. "I used to like
 skateboarders. I would help them dye their hair- it made my hands all blotchy.
 And I was always getting in trouble for breaking the dress code at my school.
 Once I wore - "
 "Ms. Hempel, did you always want to be a teacher?"
 It startled her, the conversation veering off in this direction. But then
 it made sense to her: they believed they already knew the answer. Of course
 she always wanted to be a teacher. They were giving her a way out. A way of
 explaining her unremarkable youth.
 "No!" she said. "I certainly didn't."
 "Why not?" And the question sounded reproachful. "You like teaching,
 don t you?" Because suddenly there was the possibility that she didn t." You like
 being a teacher. And you were good at school."
 They said it with confidence. They treated it as a commonplace, an
 assumption that needn't be challenged. But the fact that they had said it, the
 fact that the issue had arisen, in the midst of this tour through Ms. Hempels
 offenses, suggested that somewhere, in some part of themselves, they knew
 differently. It was astonishing, the efficiency with which they arrived at the
 truth. This was probably why children were so useful in stories and films about
 social injustice, like To Kill a Mockingbird. But Ms. Hempel didnt think that
 this ability was particularly ennobling. It was just something they could do, the
 way dogs can hear certain high-pitched sounds, or the way X-rays can see past
 skin and tissue, down to the ghostly blueprint of the bones.
 Ms. Hempel sighed. A real one, this time.
 "My school- it was demanding, academically. They had very high expec-
 tations of us."
 


 34 
 "So you were a really good student?"
 "No," Ms. Hempel said. "I wasn't."
 And this, finally, impressed them.
 "I did well on all the standardized tests 
 high on those. Anything with bubbles I w
 Even short answer. But it was hard for me
 know, stick with an argument, weave differ
 "And my school placed a lot of emphasis
 the final question on exams. Its not becaus
 because I didn t have any ideas. I had lots of 
 were hard to make sense of.
 "Has anyone ever told you that you have lots of potential? But that you
 aren t fulfilling it? That's what I heard all throughout high school.
 "So I would get terribly nervous before a paper was due. I would tell
 myself, I'm really going to fulfill my potential on this one. I'm going to make
 an outline, do a rough draft, write a paragraph a night. I'm going to plan my
 time effectively. And I would spend two weeks telling myself this, and there I'd
 be, three oclock in the morning, the paper s due in five hours, and I can t get
 my ideas to sit still long enough for me to write any of them down.
 "Thats why," Ms. Hempel concluded, "I make you turn in your outlines.
 And your rough drafts. Even though you hate me for it."
 But the attempt at levity went unremarked. Her class gazed at her,
 soberly.
 "So how'd you become a good student?" Cilia Matsui asked. "How did
 you get into a good college and become a teacher?"
 "I don t know," Ms. Hempel said. "Worked harder, I guess. What do they
 say?- I buckled down."
 It wasn t until high school that all of this unfulfilled potential was dis-
 covered; up until then, she had been simply great: great kid, great student. A
 pleasure to have in class. But beginning in the ninth grade, she felt her great-
 ness gently ebbing away, retreating to a cool, deep cistern hidden somewhere
 inside her. I think its there! her teachers hollered down into the darkness. It
 is there! her father insisted. But where? she felt like asking. Because there was
 something faintly suspicious, faintly cajoling, about the way they spoke to her,
 as if she alone knew the location, and was refusing to tell them for the sake of
 being contrary.
 


  35
 Dear Parents ,
 You recently have received an u anecdotal " ab
 might not have been immediately apparent , this an
 child, from the perspective of one of his or her tea
 dents entreaties, I did not include a note of explana
 the exercise to you themselves , and I hope you h
 your children about the letters they wrote. At this
 offer my own thoughts about the assignment and p
 understand these anecdotals.
 The assignment was inspired by a passage from
 are readings This Boys Life by Tobias Wolff. Wh
 is longing to escape his abusive stepfather and t
 When his older brother suggests that Toby apply to
 excited about the idea , but then discouraged when 
 grades, he will never be accepted. Help arrives in th
 volunteers in the school office and supplies Toby w
 he needs to create his own letters of recommendati
 I felt full of things that had to be saidyfull of sti
 what I thought I was writing - the truth. It was tru
 hut I believed in it more than I believed in the fa
 I believed that in some sense not factually verifiab
 student. In the same wayy I believed that I was a
 powerful swimmer ; and a boy of integrity. These w
 that I had held onto for dear life. Now I gave them
 . . . I wrote without heat or hyperbole , in the wor
 have used if they had known me as I knew myself. 
 ters. And in the boy who lived in their letters, the 
 carried all my hopes , it seemed to me I saw, at last,
 I had hoped that through this exercise studen
 own visions of themselves, visions that might diffe
 parents, or friends. I wanted to give them a chance
 they see as their greatest strengths. During this cru
 kids need, I think, to articulate what they believe t
 The students approached the assignment with
 whelmed me. In their efforts to sound like their te
 length, in sharper detail, with more sophisticated p
 


 36 
 they ever have before. Spelling and grammatical e
 drafts were exhaustively revised. They felt it imp
 appear convincing.
 The decision to mail these anecdotals home wa
 share with you these very personal and often reveali
 them, I found them by turns funny, poignant, and , 
 truth. I thought that you, as parents, would value 
 children as they see themselves. The intention was no
 have mistaken, to play a joke.
 I hope that this assignment has offered some mea
 child, and I deeply regret if it has been the cause 
 distress. Please feel free to contact me if you have fu
 *
 Ms. Hempel distributed the letters, each of whic
 "Please," she said. "Its imperative that you deliver 
 thing tonight, before you do anything else. Its co
 tant." She had omitted certain details: the glee wit
 the school stationery, pulling it out from beneath he
 she had provided as to perfecting her signature on
 had leaned over her students shoulders and adjuste
 they had jigged up and down, and laughed wicked
 together in a villainous way. How she hadn't the h
 anecdotals, so carefully fashioned, would be, upo
 as false.
 They didn t sound quite right. And the signatu
 Ms. Hempel had contemplated forgery, once, 
 dent. Her school instituted a new policy: througho
 to sign all tests and papers, so that when final gr
 wouldn't be any unwelcome surprises. In accordan
 her essay on her father s desk, with a little note 
 essay had earned a C+.
 Later that evening, she was lying face down on
 skin was still ruddy from the bath, and as she peeke
 ing the damp expanse of her own body, it reminded 
 a walrus. But the comparison wasn't very complim
 seal, a sleek and shining seal. She imagined a great
 pelt.
 


  37
 But then she was interrupted: the sound of 
 her door. Disappointingly, only her essay. She p
 bent down to retrieve it.
 It was horrible to behold. Her father had writte
 essay, per her instructions, but in the margins as w
 completely colonized the page. The phrases wer
 being ironic"- agitated and without context, lik
 in their sleep. Upon closer inspection, she realiz
 response to what her teacher, Mr. Amis, had alread
 of "Obscure," her father rejoined: "Nicely nuan
 one paragraph connected to the next, her father
 transition to move from a general definition to 
 logue continued until the final page, where her 
 conclusion: that this was an essay unequaled in it
 leaps of imagination, its surprising twists and turn
 he had printed, neatly: A-. It was protected insid
 "Your name!" she bellowed down the staircase
 to just sign your name?"
 Back inside her bedroom, she heard the meth
 feet, climbing the stairs. "I don't want any part in 
 essay inside her binder, though she would apol
 say, My father lost it.
 She stood up and spoke through the crack in t
 again."
 "I'm sorry, sweetheart," her father said, his voice muffled. He was right on
 the other side. "But I can't promise you I won't."
 It was at that moment forgery first presented itself as an option. But
 instead she decided to ask, from then on, for her mother's signature. It seemed
 much easier than fraud. And she knew, anyhow, that even if she did try, she
 would inevitably get caught. Teachers were alert to that sort of crime.
 Ms. Hempel thought that parents would be, too. They were supposed to
 be vigilant. They were supposed to reprogram the cable box, listen to lyrics,
 sniff sweaters, check under the mattress. Or, at the least, distinguish between
 Ms. Hempel's prose and that of a seventh grader. She had read every one of the
 anecdotals herself, yet she could not account for the lapse.
 Some were panegyrics, plain and simple: Adelaide is without a doubt
 the most outstanding French student I have ever encountered in my  years
 of teaching. Some were recantations: Please ignore my phone call of last week.
 Matthew is no longer disrupting my class. Some su
 five-paragraph essay was so superb , I think he shoul
 recommended immediate acceleration: Judging by
 think that Emily is ready to take the SATs , and may
 Some anecdotals did everything at once.
 Dear Melanie Bean ,
 I am writing to you about your son. He has be
 in English class. He has gotten a perfect score on eve
 in English. He is completely outscoring, outtalking, o
 the class. I look forward to spending my time elabor
 expertise. I would like to consider moving him up to 
 I think would be more suited to his ability. Even t
 every day, I think that Spanish is an inferior class f
 state , and is simply ruining his skills. I have framed
 them all inspirational especially his poetry. William i
 and I will never forget him. I suggest that you en
 constantly.
 Sincerely
 Beatrice Hempel
 Will Bean looked nothing like his mother. He was small and impish and pale,
 and had assumed the role of a friendly, benign irritant, someone who pops up
 from behind desks and briskly waves. His greatest joy was a series of books
 about a religious community made up of mice, voles, and hedgehogs. They
 had taken the Benedictine vows, and created a devout but merry life for them-
 selves. Will frequently alluded to them. He produced a radio play in which he
 performed all the parts: the sonorous voice of the badger abbot, the tittering
 of the field mice, who were still novices and had to work in the monastery's
 kitchens. He pestered Ms. Hempel into borrowing a tape deck and making the
 whole class listen to his production. In anecdotal terms, he could be described
 as whimsical or inventive , or delightfully imaginative.
 Ms. Bean, however, was tall and gaunt and harried. When Ms. Hempel
 saw her, standing outside the schools gates, she was swaddled in bags: one for
 her computer, another for her dry cleaning, for her groceries, for Wills soccer
 uniform. It was strange, how clearly Ms. Hempel could picture her students'
 lives - Will had tae kwon do on Tuesday afternoons, and every Wednesday
 night he spent with his dad - and how murky
 comparison. All she could see in Ms. Bean was 
 one.
 "Do you have a moment," she said.
 Ms. Hempel said, of course.
 "I wanted to speak with you about the assignment."
 Would she find it deceitful, and dishonest, as Mrs. Woo did? O
 like Mrs. Galvin, she had telephoned all the relatives, even the on
 fornia, to tell them the wonderful news. It was unlikely, though, that
 the assignment, thought it original and brilliant and bold. Only M
 seemed to feel that way.
 What Ms. Bean wanted her to know was that she felt the assignme
 unkind. Or maybe not unkind. Maybe just unfair. Because she had
 ing a long time for someone else to finally notice what she had alw
 about Will. And then to discover that it was an assignment, merely
 The disappointment was terrible - could Ms. Hempel understa
 Mr. Dunne, her college counselor, was the one who first noticed t
 ancy. Impressive scores, mediocre grades. A specialist was consult
 of tests administered, and a medication prescribed. The bitter pills
 used to call them. The prescription made her hands shake a little, but 
 off after a while. And then: a shy, newfound composure. Her mother 
 her with the holiday newsletter. She wrote film reviews for the unive
 She had a nice way with words, a neat way of telling a story.
 To her ears, though, her stories sounded smushed, as if they
 sat upon by accident. None of the interesting parts survived. Yes,
 flashed the headlights, and yes, she waved at him before she ste
 Those details were resilient. Not these: how she waved glamorously
 radiantly, how the headlights heralded the arrival of a star. How 
 projected onto the snow, looked huge.
 "That was beautiful," her grandmother said to her, when she r
 her pew. "I can see Oscar doing just that- making sure you got in 
 Beautiful was not what she intended. Her story was not about 
 concern and anxious attentions. It was a tale of danger, intrigue; a 
 the days before her medicine, the days of their collusion, when they c
 cated in code - click, click - as true accomplices do. When they wer
 ting to prove everyone woefully mistaken. This was the story she wanted to tell.
 Then how did something altogether differen
 even recognize as her own. Even her father 
 been changed into someone she didn't quite know. A kind and shadowy figure,
 sitting in the car. Benevolent Thoughtful Considerate of others.
 


