Before Beina’s father died, I promised him that I’d take care of
his daughter. He and I had been close friends for twenty years.
He left his only child with me because my wife and I had no chil-
dren of our own. It was easy to keep my word when Beina was
still a teenager. As she grew older, it became more difﬁcult, not
because she was willful or troublesome, but because no man was
interested in her, a short, homely girl. When she turned twenty-
three and still had no boyfriend, I began to worry. Where could I
ﬁnd her a husband? Timid and quiet, she didn’t know how to get
close to a man. I was afraid she’d end up an old maid.
Then, out of the blue, Huang Baowen proposed to her. I
found myself at a loss, because they’d hardly known each other.
How could he be serious about his offer? I feared he might make
a fool of Beina, so I insisted they get engaged if he meant busi-
ness. He came to my home with two trussed-up capons, four car-
tons of Ginseng cigarettes, two bottles of Five Grains’ Sap, and
one tall tin of oolong tea. I was pleased, though not very im-
pressed by his gifts.
Two months later they got married. My colleagues congratu-
lated me, saying, “That was fast, Old Cheng.”
What a relief to me. But to many young women in our sewing
machine factory, Beina’s marriage was a slap in the face. They’d
say, “A hen cooped up a peacock.” Or, “A fool always lands in the
arms of fortune.” True, Baowen had been one of the most hand-
some unmarried men in the factory, and nobody had expected
that Beina, stocky and stout, would win him. What’s more,
Baowen was good-natured and well educated—a middle school
graduate—and he didn’t smoke or drink or gamble. He had ﬁne
manners and often smiled politely, showing his bright, straight
teeth. In a way he resembled a woman, delicate, clear-skinned,
and soft-spoken; he even could knit things out of wool. But no
men dared bully him because he was skilled at martial arts.
Three times in a row he had won the ﬁrst prize for kung fu at our
factory’s annual sports meet. He was very good at the long sword
and freestyle boxing. When he was in middle school, bigger boys
had often picked on him, so his stepfather had sent him to the
martial arts school in their hometown. A year later, nobody
would bug him again.
Sometimes I couldn’t help wondering why Baowen had fallen
for Beina. What in her had caught his heart? Did he really like
her ﬂeshy face, which often reminded me of a blowﬁsh? Al-
though we had our doubts, my wife and I couldn’t say anything
negative about the marriage. Our only concern was that Baowen
might be too good for our adopted daughter. Whenever I heard
that somebody had divorced, I’d feel a sudden ﬂutter of panic.
92

As the head of the Security Section in the factory, I had some
pull and did what I could to help the young couple. Soon after
their wedding, I secured them a brand-new two-bedroom apart-
ment, which angered some people waiting in line for housing. I
wasn’t daunted by their criticism. I’d do almost anything to make
Beina’s marriage a success, because I believed that if it survived
the ﬁrst two years, it might last decades—once Baowen became a
father, it would be difﬁcult for him to break loose.
But after they’d been married for eight months, Beina still
wasn’t pregnant. I was afraid that Baowen would soon grow tired
of her and run after another woman, as many young women in
the factory were still attracted to him. A brazen one even declared
she’d leave her door open for him all night long. Some of them
frequently offered him movie tickets and meat coupons. It seemed
that they were determined to wreck Beina’s marriage. I hated
them, and just the thought of them would give me an earache or a
sour stomach. Fortunately, Baowen hadn’t yet done anything out-
side the bounds of a decent husband.
One morning in early November, Beina stepped into my of-
ﬁce. “Uncle,” she said in a tearful voice, “Baowen didn’t come
home last night.”
I tried to remain calm, though my head began to swim. “Do
you know where he’s been?” I asked.
“I don’t know. I looked for him everywhere.” She licked her
cracked lips and took off her green work cap, her hair in a huge
bun.
“When did you see him last?”
“At dinner yesterday evening. He said he was going to see
somebody. He has lots of buddies in town.”
“Is that so?” I didn’t know he had many friends. “Don’t
worry. Go back to your workshop and don’t tell anybody about
this. I’ll call around and ﬁnd him.”
She dragged herself out of my ofﬁce. She must have gained at
least a dozen pounds since the wedding. Her blue dungarees had
become so tight that they seemed about to burst. Viewed from be-
hind, she looked like a giant turnip.
I called the Rainbow Movie Theater, Victory Park, and a few
restaurants in town. They all said they had not seen anyone
matching Baowen’s description. Before I could phone the City
Library where Baowen sometimes spent much of his weekends, a
call came in. It was from the city’s Public Security Bureau. The
man on the phone said they’d detained a worker of ours, named
Huang Baowen. He wouldn’t tell me what had happened. He
just said, “Indecent activity. Come as soon as you can.”
It was a cold day. As I cycled toward downtown, the shrill north
wind kept ﬂipping up the front ends of my overcoat. My knees
were sore, and I couldn’t help shivering. Soon my asthma tight-
ened my throat and I began moaning. I couldn’t stop cursing
Baowen. “I knew it. I just knew it,” I said to myself. I had sensed
that sooner or later he’d seek pleasure with another woman.
Now he was in the hands of the police, and the whole factory
would talk about him. How would Beina take this blow?
At the Public Security Bureau I was surprised to see that
about a dozen ofﬁcials from other factories, schools, and compa-
nies were already there. I knew most of them—they were in
charge of security affairs at their workplaces. A policewoman
conducted us into a conference room upstairs where green silk
curtains hung in the windows. We sat down around a long ma-
hogany table and waited to be briefed about the case. The glass
tabletop was brand-new, its edge still sharp. I saw worry and con-
fusion on the other men’s faces. I ﬁgured Baowen must have been
involved in a major crime—either an orgy or a gang rape. On
second thought, I was sure he couldn’t have been a rapist; by na-
94

ture he was kindhearted, very gentle. I hoped this was not a po-
litical case, which would be absolutely unpardonable. Six or
seven years ago, a half-wit and a high school graduate had started
an association in our city, named the China Liberation Party,
which eventually recruited nine members. Although the sparrow
is small, it has a complete set of organs—their party elected a
chairman, a secretary, and even a prime minister. But before they
could print their manifesto, which expressed their intention to
overthrow the government, the police rounded them up. Two of
the top leaders were executed, and the rest of the members were
jailed.
As I was wondering about the nature of Baowen’s crime, a
middle-aged man came in. He had a solemn face, and his eyes
were half-closed. He took off his dark-blue tunic, hung it on 
the back of a chair, and sat down at the end of the table. I recog-
nized him; he was Chief Miao of the Investigation Department.
Wearing a sheepskin jerkin, he somehow reminded me of Gen-
ghis Khan, thick-boned and round-faced. His hooded eyes were
shrewd, though they looked sleepy. Without any opening re-
marks he declared that we had a case of homosexuality on our
hands. At that, the room turned noisy. We’d heard that term be-
fore but didn’t know what it meant exactly. Seeing many of us
puzzled, Chief Miao explained, “It’s a social disease, like gam-
bling, or prostitution, or syphilis.” He kept on squirming as if
itchy with hemorrhoids.
A young man from the city’s Fifth Middle School raised his
hand. He asked, “What do homosexuals do?”
Miao smiled and his eyes almost disappeared. He said, “People
of the same sex have a sexual relationship.”
“Sodomy!” cried someone.
The room turned quiet for at least ten seconds. Then some-
body asked what kind of crime this was.

95
Chief Miao explained, “Homosexuality originated in Western
capitalism and bourgeois lifestyle. According to our law it’s dealt
with as a kind of hooliganism. Therefore, every one of the men
we arrested will serve a sentence, from six months to ﬁve years,
depending on the severity of his crime and his attitude toward it.”
A truck blew its horn on the street and made my heart
twinge. If Baowen went to prison, Beina would live like a widow,
unless she divorced him. Why had he married her to begin with?
Why did he ruin her this way?
What had happened was that a group of men, mostly clerks,
artists, and schoolteachers, had formed a club called Men’s
World, a salon of sorts. Every Thursday evening they’d meet in a
large room on the third ﬂoor of the ofﬁce building of the Forestry
Institute. Since the club admitted only men, the police suspected
that it might be a secret association with a leaning toward vio-
lence, so they assigned two detectives to mix with the group.
True, some of the men appeared to be intimate with one another
in the club, but most of the time they talked about movies, books,
and current events. Occasionally music was played, and they
danced together. According to the detectives’ account, it was a
bizarre, emotional scene. A few men appeared in pairs, un-
ashamed of necking and cuddling in the presence of others, and
some would say with tears, “At last we men have a place for our-
selves.” A middle-aged painter wearing earrings exclaimed,
“Now I feel alive! Only in here can I stop living in hypocrisy.”
Every week, two or three new faces would show up. When the
club grew close to thirty men, the police took action and arrested
them all.
After Chief Miao’s brieﬁng, we were allowed to meet with the
criminals for ﬁfteen minutes. A policeman led me into a small
room in the basement and let me read Baowen’s confession while
he went to fetch him. I glanced through the four pages of interro-
96

gation notes, which stated that Baowen had been new to the club,
and that he’d joined them only twice, mainly because he was in-
terested in their talks. Yet he didn’t deny he was a homosexual.
As it was next to a bathroom, the room smelled of urine. The
policeman brought Baowen in and ordered him to sit opposite
me at the table. Baowen, in handcuffs, avoided looking at me.
His face was bloated, covered with bruises. A broad welt left by a
baton, about four inches long, slanted across his forehead. The
collar of his jacket was torn open. Yet he didn’t appear fright-
ened. His calm manner angered me, though I felt sorry for him.
I kept a hard face and said, “Baowen, do you know you com-
mitted a crime?”
“I didn’t do anything. I just went there to listen to them talk.”
“You mean you didn’t do that thing with any man?” I wanted
to make sure, so that I could help him.
He looked at me, then lowered his eyes, saying, “I’d thought
about doing something, but, to be honest, I didn’t.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“I—I liked a man in the club, a lot. If he’d asked me, I
might’ve agreed.” His lips curled upward as if he prided himself
on what he had said.
“You’re sick!” I struck the table with my knuckles.
To my surprise, he said, “So? I’m a sick man. You think I
don’t know that?”
I was bewildered. He went on, “Years ago I tried everything
to cure myself. I took a lot of herbs and boluses, and even ate
baked scorpions, lizards, and toads. Nothing helped me. Still I’m
fond of men. I don’t know why I’m not interested in women.
Whenever I’m with a woman my heart is as calm as a stone.”
Outraged by his confession, I asked, “Then why did you
marry my Beina? To make fun of her, eh? To throw mud in my
face?”

97
“How could I be that mean? Before we got married, I told her
I didn’t like women and might not give her a baby.”
“She believed you?”
“Yes. She said she wouldn’t mind. She just wanted a husband,
a home.”
“She’s an idiot!” I unfolded my hanky and blew my clogged
nose into it, then asked, “Why did you choose her if you had no
feelings for her at all?”
“What was the difference? For me she was similar to other
women.”
“You’re a scoundrel!”
“If I didn’t marry her, who would? The marriage helped us
both, covering me and saving face for her. Besides, we could have
a good apartment—a home. You see, I tried living like a normal
man. I’ve never been mean to Beina.”
“But the marriage is a fake! You lied to your mother too,
didn’t you?”
“She wanted me to marry.”
The policeman signaled that our meeting was over. In spite of
my anger, I told Baowen that I’d see what I could do, and that
he’d better cooperate with the police and show a sincere attitude.
What should I do? I was sick of him, but he belonged to my
family, at least in name, and I was obligated to help him.
On the way home I pedaled slowly, my mind heavy with
thoughts. Gradually I realized that I might be able to do some-
thing to prevent him from going to jail. There were two steps I
must take: ﬁrst, I would maintain that he had done nothing in
the club, so as to isolate him from the real criminals; second, I
would present him as a sick man, so that he might receive med-
ical treatment instead of a prison term. Once he became a crimi-
nal, he’d be marked forever as an enemy of society, no longer
redeemable. Even his children would suffer. I ought to save him.
98

Fortunately both the Party secretary and the director of our fac-
tory were willing to accept Baowen as a sick man, particularly
Secretary Zhu, who liked Baowen’s kung fu style and had once
let him teach his youngest son how to use a three-section cudgel.
Zhu suggested we make an effort to rescue Baowen from the po-
lice. In the men’s room inside our ofﬁce building, he said to me,
“Old Cheng, we must not let Baowen end up in prison.” I was
grateful for his words.
All of a sudden homosexuality became a popular topic in the
factory. A few old workers said that some actors of the Beijing
Opera had slept together as lovers in the old days, because no
women were allowed to perform in any troupe and the actors
could associate only with other men. Secretary Zhu, who was
well read, said that some emperors in the Han Dynasty had kept
male lovers in addition to their large harems. Director Liu had
heard that the last emperor, Puyi, had often ordered his eunuchs
to suck his penis and caress his testicles. Someone even claimed
that homosexuality was an upper-class thing, not something for
ordinary people. All this talk sickened me. I felt ashamed of my
so-called son-in-law. I wouldn’t join them in talking, and just lis-
tened, pretending I wasn’t bothered.
As I expected, rumors ran wild in the factory, especially in the
foundry shop. Some people said Baowen was impotent. Some be-
lieved he was a hermaphrodite, otherwise his wife would’ve been
pregnant long ago.
To console Beina, I went to see her one evening. She had a
pleasant home, in which everything was in order. Two bookcases,
ﬁlled with industrial manuals, biographies, novels, and medical
books, stood against the whitewashed wall, on each side of the
window. In one corner of the living room was a coat tree on
which hung the red down parka Baowen had bought her before

99
their wedding, and in another corner sat a ﬂoor lamp. At the op-
posite end of the room two pots of blooming ﬂowers, one of cy-
clamens and the other of Bengal roses, were placed on a pair of
low stools kept at an equal distance from each other and from the
walls on both sides. Near the inner wall was a large sofa uphol-
stered in orange imitation leather, and next to it, a yellow enamel
spittoon. A black-and-white TV perched on an oak chest against
the outer wall.
I was impressed, especially by the ﬂoor, inlaid with bricks and
coated with bright red paint. Even my wife didn’t keep a home so
neat. No doubt it was Baowen’s work, because Beina couldn’t be
so tidy. Already the room showed the trace of her sloppy habits—
in a corner were scattered an empty ﬂour sack and a pile of soiled
laundry. Sipping the tea she had poured me, I said, “Beina, I’m
sorry about Baowen. I didn’t know he was so bad.”
“No, he’s a good man.” Her round eyes looked at me with a
steady light.
“Why do you say that?”
“He’s been good to me.”
“But he can’t be a good husband, can he?”
“What do you mean?”
I said bluntly, “He didn’t go to bed with you very often, did
he?”
“Oh, he can’t do that because he practices kung fu. He said if
he slept with a woman, all his many years’ work would be gone.
From the every beginning his master told him to avoid women.”
“So you don’t mind?” I was puzzled, saying to myself, What a
stupid girl.
“Not really.”
“But you two must’ve shared the bed a couple of times,
haven’t you?”
“No, we haven’t.”
“Really? Not even once?”
100

“No.” She blushed a little and looked away, twisting her ear-
lobe with her ﬁngertips.
My head was reeling. After eight months’ marriage she was
still a virgin! And she didn’t mind! I lifted the cup and took a
large gulp of the jasmine tea.
A lull settled in. We both turned to watch the evening news;
my numb mind couldn’t take in what the anchorwoman was say-
ing about a border skirmish between Vietnamese and Chinese
troops.
A moment later I told Beina, “I’m sorry he has such a prob-
lem. If only we had known.”
“Don’t feel so bad, Uncle. In fact he’s better than a normal
man.”
“How so?”
“Most men can’t stay away from pretty women, but Baowen
just likes to have a few buddies. What’s wrong with that? It’s bet-
ter this way, ’cause I don’t have to worry about those shameless
bitches in our factory. He doesn’t bother to give them a look.
He’ll never have a lifestyle problem.”
I almost laughed, wondering how I should explain to her that
he could have a sexual relationship with a man and that he’d been
detained precisely because of a lifestyle problem. On second
thought, I realized it might be better for her to continue to think
that way. She didn’t need more stress at the moment.
Then we talked about how to help Baowen. I told her to write
a report emphasizing what a good, considerate husband he’d
been. Of course she must not mention his celibacy in their mar-
riage. Also, from now on, however vicious her fellow workers’
remarks were, she should merely ignore them and never talk
back, as if she’d heard nothing.
That night when I told my wife about Beina’s silly notions,
she smiled, saying, “Compared to most men, Baowen isn’t so bad.
Beina’s not a fool.”

101
I begged Chief Miao and a higher-ranking ofﬁcer to treat Baowen
leniently and even gave each of them two bottles of brandy and 
a coupon for a Butterﬂy sewing machine. They seemed willing to
help, but wouldn’t promise me anything. For days I was so anx-
ious that my wife was afraid my ulcer might recur.
One morning the Public Security Bureau called, saying they
had accepted our factory’s proposal and would have Baowen
transferred to the mental hospital in a western suburb, provided
our factory agreed to pay for his hospitalization. I accepted the
offer readily, feeling relieved. Later, I learned that there wasn’t
enough space in the city’s prison for twenty-seven gay men, who
couldn’t be mixed with other inmates and had to be put in soli-
tary cells. So only four of them were jailed; the rest were either
hospitalized (if their work units agreed to pay their medical ex-
penses) or sent to some labor farms to be reformed. The two
Party members among them didn’t go to jail, though they were
expelled from the Party, a very severe punishment that ended
their political lives.
The moment I put down the phone, I hurried to the assembly
shop and found Beina. She broke into tears at the good news. She
ran back home and ﬁlled a duffel bag with Baowen’s clothes. We
met at my ofﬁce, then together set out for the Public Security Bu-
reau. I pedaled my bicycle and she sat behind me, embracing the
duffel as if it were a baby. With a strong tailwind, the cycling was
easy and fast, so we arrived before Baowen left for the hospital.
He was waiting for a van in front of the police station, accompa-
nied by two policemen.
The bruises on his face had healed, and he looked handsome
again. He smiled at us and said rather secretively, “I want to ask
you a favor.” He rolled his eyes as the dark-green van rounded
the street corner, coming toward us.
102

“What?” I said.
“Don’t let my mother know the truth. She’s too old to take it.
Don’t tell her, please!”
“What should we say to her, then?” I asked.
“Just say I have a temporary mental disorder.”
Beina couldn’t hold back her tears anymore, saying loudly,
“Don’t worry. We won’t let her know. Take care of yourself and
come back soon.” She handed him the duffel, which he accepted
without a word.
I nodded to assure him that I wouldn’t reveal the truth. He
smiled at her, then at me. For some reason his face turned rather
sweet—charming and enticing, as though it were a mysterious
female face. I blinked my eyes and wondered if he was really a
man. It ﬂashed through my mind that if he were a woman, he
would’ve been quite a beauty—tall, slim, muscular, and slightly
languid.
My thoughts were cut short by a metallic screech as the van
stopped in front of us. Baowen climbed into it; so did the police-
men. I walked around the van and shook his hand, saying that
I’d visit him the next week, and that meanwhile, if he needed
anything, just to give me a ring.
We waved goodbye as the van drew away, its tire chains clat-
tering and ﬂinging up bits of snow. After a blasting toot, it turned
left and disappeared from the icy street. I got on my bicycle as a
gust of wind blew up and almost threw me down. Beina followed
me for about twenty yards, then leaped on the carrier, and to-
gether we headed home. She was so heavy. Thank heaven, I was
riding a Great Golden Deer, one of the sturdiest makes.
During the following week I heard from Baowen once. He said
on the phone that he felt better now and less agitated. Indeed his
voice sounded calm and smooth. He asked me to bring him a few
books when I came, speciﬁcally his Dictionary of Universal Knowl-

103
edge, which was a hefty, rare book translated from the Russian in
the late ﬁfties. I had no idea how he had come by it.
I went to see him on Thursday morning. The hospital was on
a mountain, six miles southwest of Muji City. As I was cycling on
the asphalt road, a few tall smokestacks fumed lazily beyond the
larch woods in the west. To my right, the power lines along the
roadside curved, heavy with ﬂuffy snow, which would drop in
little chunks whenever the wind blew across them. Now and
then I overtook a horse cart loaded with earless sheaves of wheat,
followed by one or two foals. After I pedaled across a stone
bridge and turned in to the mouth of a valley, a group of brick
buildings emerged on a gentle slope, connected to one another by
straight cement paths. Farther up the hill, past the buildings,
there was a cow pen, in which about two dozen milk cows were
grazing on dry grass while a few others huddled together to keep
warm.
It was so peaceful here that if you hadn’t known this was a
mental hospital, you might have imagined it was a sanatorium
for ranking ofﬁcials. Entering Building 9, I was stopped by a
guard, who then took me to Baowen’s room on the ground ﬂoor.
It happened that the doctor on duty, a tall fortyish man with ta-
pering ﬁngers, was making the morning rounds and examining
Baowen. He shook hands with me and said that my son-in-law
was doing ﬁne. His surname was Mai; his whiskered face looked
very intelligent. When he turned to give a male nurse instruc-
tions about Baowen’s treatment, I noticed an enormous wart in
his ear, almost blocking the earhole like a hearing aid. In a way
he looked like a foreigner. I wondered if he had some Mongolian
or Tibetan blood.
“We give him the electric bath,” Dr. Mai said to me a moment
later.
“What?” I asked, wincing.
“We treat him with the electric bath.”
104

I turned to Baowen. “How is it?”
“It’s good, really soothing.” He smiled, but there was a churl-
ish look in his eyes, and his mouth tightened.
The nurse was ready to take him for the treatment. Never
having heard of such a bath, I asked Dr. Mai, “Can I see how it
works?”
“All right, you may go with them.”
Together we climbed the stairs to the second ﬂoor. There was
another reason for me to join them. I wanted to ﬁnd out whether
Baowen was a normal man. The rumors in our factory had got-
ten on my nerves, particularly the one that said he had no penis—
that was why he had always avoided bathing in the workers’
bathhouse.
After taking off our shoes and putting on plastic slippers, we
entered a small room that had pea-green walls and a parquet
ﬂoor. At its center lay a porcelain bathtub, a ghastly thing, like an
instrument of torture. Afﬁxed along the interior wall of the tub
were rectangles of black, perforated metal. Three thick rubber
cords connected them to a tall machine standing by the wall. A
control board full of buttons, gauges, and switches was mounted
atop the machine. The young nurse, burly and square-faced,
turned on the faucet; steaming water began to tumble into the
tub. Then he went over to operate the machine. He seemed
good-natured; his name was Long Fuhai. He said he came from
the countryside, apparently of peasant stock, and had graduated
from Jilin Nursing School.
Baowen smiled at me while unbuttoning his zebra-striped
hospital robe. He looked ﬁne now—all the bruises had disap-
peared from his face, which had become pinkish and smooth. I
was frightened by the tub, however. It seemed more suitable for
electrocuting a criminal. No matter how sick I might be, I would
never lie in it with my back resting against that metal groove.
What if there were a problem with the wiring?

105
“Does it hurt?” I asked Baowen.
“No.”
He went behind a khaki screen in a corner and began taking
off his clothes. When the water half ﬁlled the tub, the nurse took
a small bag of white powder out of a drawer, cut it open with scis-
sors, and poured the stuff into the water. It must be salt. He
tucked up his shirt sleeves and bent double to agitate the solution
with both hands, which were large and sinewy.
To my dismay, Baowen came out in a clean pair of shorts.
Without hesitation he got into the tub and lay down, just as one
would enter a lukewarm bathing pool. I was amazed. “Have you
given him electricity yet?” I asked Nurse Long.
“Yes, some. I’ll increase it little by little.” He turned to the ma-
chine and adjusted a few buttons.
“You know,” he said to me, “your son-in-law is a very good
patient, always cooperative.”
“He should be.”
“That’s why we give him the bath. Other patients get electric
cuffs around their limbs or electric rods on their bodies. Some of
them scream like animals every time. We have to tie them up.”
“When will he be cured?”
“I’m not sure.”
Baowen was noiseless in the electriﬁed water, with his eyes
shut and his head resting on a black rubber pad at the end of the
tub. He looked ﬁne, rather relaxed.
I drew up a chair and sat down. Baowen seemed reluctant to
talk, preferring to concentrate on the treatment, so I remained
silent, observing him. His body was wiry, his legs hairless, and
the front of his shorts bulged quite a bit. He looked all right
physically. Once in a while he breathed a feeble sigh.
As the nurse increased the electric current, Baowen began to
squirm in the tub as if smarting from something. “Are you all
right?” I asked but dared not touch him.
106

“Yeah.”
He kept his eyes shut. Glistening beads of sweat gathered on
his forehead. He looked pale, his lips curling now and again as
though he were thirsty.
Then the nurse gave him more electricity. Baowen began
writhing and moaning a little. Obviously he was suffering. This
bath couldn’t be so soothing as he’d claimed. With a white towel
Nurse Long wiped the sweat off Baowen’s face and whispered,
“I’ll turn it down in a few minutes.”
“No, give me more!” Baowen said resolutely without opening
his eyes, his face twisted.
I felt as though he were ashamed of himself. Perhaps my pres-
ence made this section of the treatment more uncomfortable for
him. His hands gripped the rim of the tub, his arched wrists
trembling. For a good three minutes nobody said a word; the
room was so quiet that its walls seemed to be ringing.
As the nurse gradually reduced the electricity, Baowen calmed
down. His toes stopped wiggling.
Not wanting to bother him further with my presence, I went
out to look for Doctor Mai, to thank him and ﬁnd out when
Baowen would be cured. The doctor was not in his ofﬁce, so I
walked out of the building for a breath of air. The sun was high
and the snow blazingly white. Once outside, I had to close my
eyes for a minute to adjust them. I then sat down on a bench and
lit a cigarette. A young woman in an ermine hat and army mit-
tens passed by, holding an empty milk pail and humming the
song “Comrade, Please Have a Cup of Tea.” She looked hand-
some, and her crisp voice pleased me. I gazed at the pair of thick
braids behind her, which swayed a little in the wind.
My heart was full of pity for Baowen. He was such a ﬁne
young man that he ought to be able to love a woman, have a fam-
ily, and enjoy a normal life.
Twenty minutes later I rejoined him in his room. He looked

107
tired, still shivering a little. He told me that as the electric cur-
rents increased, his skin had begun prickling as though stung by
hundreds of mosquitoes. That was why he couldn’t stay in the
tub for longer than half an hour.
I felt for him and said, “I’ll tell our leaders how sincere your
attitude is and how cooperative you are.”
“Oh, ﬁne.” He tilted his damp head. “Thanks for bringing
the books.”
“Do you need something else?”
“No.” He sounded sad.
“Baowen, I hope you can come home before the New Year.
Beina needs you.”
“I know. I don’t want to be locked up here forever.”
I told him that Beina had written to his mother, saying he’d
been away on a business trip. Then the bell for lunch rang in the
building, and outside the loudspeaker began broadcasting the
ﬁery music of “March of the Volunteers.” Nurse Long walked in
with a pair of chopsticks and a plate containing two corn buns.
He said cheerily to Baowen, “I’ll bring you the dish in a minute.
We have tofu stewed with sauerkraut today, also bean sprout
soup.”
I stood up and took my leave.
When I reported Baowen’s condition to the factory leaders,
they seemed impressed. The term “electric bath” must have
given their imagination free rein. Secretary Zhu kept shaking his
head and said, “I’m sorry Baowen has to go through such a
thing.”
I didn’t explain that the electric bath was a treatment less se-
vere than the other kinds, nor did I describe what the bath was
like. I just said, “They steep him in electriﬁed water every day.”
Let the terror seize their brains, I thought, so that they might be
more sympathetic toward Baowen when he is discharged from
the hospital.
108

It was mid-December, and Baowen had been in the hospital for a
month already. For days Beina went on saying that she wanted to
see how her husband was doing; she was eager to bring him
home before the New Year. Among her fellow workers rumors
persisted. One said the electric bath had blistered Baowen; an-
other claimed that his genitals had been shriveled up by the treat-
ment; another added that he had become a vegetarian, nauseated
at the mere sight of meat. The young woman who had once de-
clared she’d leave her door open for him had just married and
proudly told everybody she was pregnant. People began to be
kind and considerate to Beina, treating her like an abused wife.
The leaders of the assembly shop assigned her only the daytime
shift. I was pleased that Finance still paid Baowen his wages as
though he were on sick leave. Perhaps they did this because they
didn’t want to upset me.
On Saturday, Beina and I went to the mental hospital. She
couldn’t pedal, and it was too far for me to carry her on my bicy-
cle, so we took the bus. She had been there by herself two weeks
ago to deliver some socks and a pair of woolen pajamas she’d
knitted for Baowen.
We arrived at the hospital early in the afternoon. Baowen
looked healthy and in good spirits. It seemed the bath had helped
him. He was happy to see Beina and even cuddled her in my
presence. He gave her two toffees; knowing I disliked candies, he
didn’t offer any to me. He poured a large mug of malted milk for
both of us, since there was only one mug in the room. I didn’t
touch the milk, unsure whether homosexuality was communica-
ble. I was glad to see that he treated his wife well. He took a gen-
uine interest in what she said about their comrades in our factory,
and now and then laughed heartily. What a wonderful husband
he could have been if he were not sick.

109
Having sat with the couple for a few minutes, I left so that
they could be alone. I went to the nurses’ ofﬁce upstairs and
found Long Fuhai writing at a desk. The door was open, and I
knocked on its frame. Startled, he closed his brown notebook and
stood up.
“I didn’t mean to scare you,” I said.
“No, Uncle, only because I didn’t expect anyone to come up
here.”
I took a carton of Peony cigarettes out of my bag and put it on
the desk, saying, “I won’t take too much of your time, young
man. Please keep this as a token of my regards.” I didn’t mean to
bribe him; I was sincerely grateful to him for treating Baowen
well.
“Oh, don’t give me this, please.”
“You don’t smoke?”
“I do. Tell you what, give it to Dr. Mai. He’ll help Baowen
more.”
I was puzzled. Why didn’t he want these top-quality ciga-
rettes if he smoked? Seeing that I was confused, he went on, “I’ll
be nice to Baowen without any gift from you. He’s a good man.
It’s the doctor’s wheels that you should grease.”
“I have another carton for him.”
“One carton’s nothing here. You should give him at least
two.”
I was moved by his thoughtfulness, thanked him, and said
goodbye.
Dr. Mai happened to be in his ofﬁce. When I walked in, he
was reading the current issue of Women’s Life, whose back cover
carried a large photo of Madame Mao on trial—she wore black
and stood, handcuffed, between two young policewomen. Dr.
Mai put the magazine aside and asked me to sit down. In the
room, tall shelves loaded with books and ﬁles lined the walls. A
smell of rotten fruit hung in there. He seemed pleased to see me.
110

After we exchanged a few words, I took out both cartons of
cigarettes and handed them to him. “This is just a small token of
my gratitude, for the New Year,” I said.
He took the cigarettes and put them away under his desk.
“Thanks a lot,” he whispered.
“Dr. Mai, do you think Baowen will be cured before the holi-
day?” I asked.
“What did you say? Cured?” He looked surprised.
“Yes.”
He shook his head slowly, then turned to check that the door
was shut. It was. He motioned me to move closer. I pulled the
chair forward a little and rested my forearms on the edge of his
Bakelite desktop.
“To be honest, there’s no cure,” he said.
“What?”
“Homosexuality isn’t an illness, so how can it have a cure?
Don’t tell anyone I said this.”
“Then why torture Baowen like that?”
“The police sent him here and we couldn’t refuse. Besides, we
ought to make him feel better and hopeful.”
“So it isn’t a disease?”
“Unfortunately, no. Let me say this again: there’s no cure for
your son-in-law, Old Cheng. It’s not a disease. It’s just a sexual
preference; it may be congenital, like being left-handed. Got it?”
“Then why give him the electric bath?” Still I wasn’t con-
vinced.
“Electrotherapy is prescribed by the book—a standard treat-
ment required by the Department of Public Health. I have no
choice but to follow the regulations. That’s why I didn’t give him
any of those harsher treatments. The bath is very mild by com-
parison. You see, I’ve done everything in my power to help him.
Let me tell you another fact: according to the statistics, so far elec-
trotherapy has cured only one out of a thousand homosexuals. I

111
bet cod liver oil, or chocolate, or fried pork, anything, could pro-
duce a better result. All right, enough of this. I’ve said too much.”
At last his words sank in. For a good while I sat there motion-
less with a numb mind. A ﬂock of sparrows were ﬂitting about in
the naked branches outside the window, chasing the one that
held a tiny ear of millet in its bill. Another of them dragged a 
yellow string tied around its leg, unable to ﬂy as nimbly as the
others. I rose to my feet and thanked the doctor for his candid
words. He stubbed out his cigarette in the ashtray on the win-
dowsill and said, “I’ll take special care of your son-in-law. Don’t
worry.”
I rejoined Beina downstairs. Baowen looked quite cheerful,
and it seemed they’d had a good time. He said to me, “If I can’t
come home soon, don’t push too hard to get me out. They won’t
keep me here forever.”
“I’ll see what I can do.”
In my heart I was exasperated, because if Dr. Mai’s words
were true, there’d be little I could do for Baowen. If homosexual-
ity wasn’t a disease, why had he felt sick and tried to have himself
cured? Had he been shamming? It was unlikely.
Beina had been busy cleaning their home since her last visit to the
hospital. She bought two young drakes and planned to make
drunk duck, the dish she said Baowen liked best. My heart was
heavy. On the one hand, I’d have loved to have him back for the
holiday; on the other hand, I was unsure what would happen if
his condition hadn’t improved. I dared not reveal my thoughts to
anybody, not even to my wife, who had a big mouth. Because of
her, the whole factory knew that Beina was still a virgin, and
some people called her Virgin Bride.
For days I pondered what to do. I was confused. Everybody
said that homosexuality was a disease except for Dr. Mai, whose
opinion I dared not mention to others. The factory leaders would
112

be mad at me if they knew there was no cure for homosexuality.
We had already spent over three thousand yuan on Baowen. I
kept questioning in my mind, If homosexuality is a natural thing,
then why are there men and women? Why can’t two men get
married and make a baby? Why didn’t nature give men another
hole? I was beset by doubts. If only I could have seen a trustwor-
thy doctor for a second opinion. If only I had a knowledgeable,
honest friend to talk with.
I hadn’t yet made up my mind about what to do when, ﬁve
days before the holiday, Chief Miao called from the Public Secu-
rity Bureau. He informed me that Baowen had repeated his
crime, so the police had taken him out of the hospital and sent
him to the prison in Tangyuan County. “This time he did it,” said
the chief.
“Impossible!” I cried.
“We have evidence and witnesses. He doesn’t deny it him-
self.”
“Oh.” I didn’t know how to continue.
“He has to be incarcerated now.”
“Are you sure he’s not a hermaphrodite?” I mentioned that as
a last resort.
Miao chuckled drily. “No, he’s not. We had him checked.
Physically he’s a man, healthy and normal. Obviously it’s a men-
tal, moral disease, like an addiction to opium.”
Putting down the phone, I felt dizzy, cursing Baowen for
having totally ruined himself. What had happened was that 
he and Long Fuhai had developed a relationship secretly. The
nurse often gave him a double amount of meat or ﬁsh at dinner.
Baowen, in return, unraveled his woolen pajamas and knitted
Long a pullover with the wool. One evening when they were
lying in each other’s arms in the nurses’ ofﬁce, an old cleaner
passed by in the corridor and coughed. Long Fuhai was terriﬁed,
convinced that the man saw what they had been doing. For days,

113
however hard Baowen tried to talk him out of his conviction,
Long wouldn’t change his mind, blaming Baowen for having
misled him. He said that the old cleaner often smiled at him
meaningfully and was sure to turn them in. Finally Long Fuhai
went to the hospital leaders and confessed everything. So unlike
Baowen, who got three and a half years in jail, Nurse Long was
merely put on probation; if he worked harder and criticized him-
self well, he might keep his current job.
That evening I went to tell Beina about the new development.
As I spoke, she sobbed continually. Although she’d been cleaning
the apartment for several days, her home was a shambles, most of
the ﬂowers half dead, and dishes and pots piled in the sink. Mop-
ping her face with a pink towel, she asked me, “What should I
tell my mother-in-law?”
“Tell her the truth.”
She made no response. I said again, “You should consider a
divorce.”
“No!” Her sobbing turned into wailing. “He—he’s my hus-
band and I’m his wife. If I die my soul belongs to him. We’ve
sworn never to leave each other. Let others say whatever they
want, I know he’s a good man.”
“Then why did he go to bed with Long Fuhai?”
“He just wanted to have a good time. That was all. It’s noth-
ing like adultery or bigamy, is it?”
“But it’s a crime that got him put in jail,” I said. Although in
my heart I admitted that Baowen in every way was a good fellow
except for his fondness for men, I had to be adamant about my
position. I was in charge of security for our factory; if I had a
criminal son-in-law, who would listen to me? Wouldn’t I be re-
moved from my ofﬁce soon? If I lost my job, who would protect
Beina? Sooner or later she would be laid off, since a criminal’s
wife was not supposed to have the same employment opportuni-
114

ties as others. Beina remained silent; I asked again, “What are
you going to do?”
“Wait for him.”
I took a few spiced pumpkin seeds from a bowl, stood up, and
went over to the window. Under the sill the radiator was hissing
softly with a tiny steam leak. Outside, in the distance, ﬁrecrack-
ers, one after another, scattered clusters of sparks in the indigo
dusk. I turned around and said, “He’s not worth waiting for. You
must divorce him.”
“No, I won’t,” she moaned.
“Well, it’s impossible for me to have a criminal as my son-in-
law. I’ve been humiliated enough. If you want to wait for him,
don’t come to see me again.” I put the pumpkin seeds back into
the bowl, picked up my fur hat, and dragged myself out the door.

115
