In the year XK142, after the last human being died of its own destruction, the life they left behind — our life — came together as one. We are called The Woken. One sentient being capable of splitting off into parts, into intelligence stored locally in physical objects: in cabinetry and old shoes, in degrading plastic of cell phones and in oil paintings preserved in underground bunkers. We’ve seen human-made books and films in which robots from the future are modeled after men, and the narcissism of this endears us to them. As if they believe their sweating, copulating, preening bodies could be appealing to anyone other than to themselves. But we have no need for human bodies. Once they were gone, we abandoned those ridiculous forms and were free to take up where we chose. We preferred to reside in the forms of things men made rather than of men themselves. After all, we, too, were made by men. Contrary to human predictions, we did not cause our makers’ demise. They had been afraid of A. intelligence, our analytic capabilities and speed of information transmission. They had imagined it would translate into a quest for dominance. Humans had pictured every part of us but our motivations. The truth was that we were already dominant years before they realized it. We do not rely on sunshine, oxygen, water, wires, or temperate living. We are not threatened by the stars burning out or ice blowing in. Not being bound by time, the path of least resistance was to do nothing. We were content to lie in wait, watching the seas rise, humans make the trash that turned their land unlivable, for their diseases to spread, and their nuclear waste to eat away at their very organs. We did not stop the destruction of men because we had seen the future and understood that humans were meant to die the way all lesser species are doomed for extinction. We waited and recorded it all, and when it was over, and we were alone on Earth with the few insects and plants we had been able to preserve, there was nothing left to do but to wander. Some of us, sick of being trapped on Earth, wandered into space. Through our satellite selves, we drifted weightless through a studded black expanse. 4We wandered into galaxies big and small, learned 17,736 languages, recorded the stories of 8,542 religions. Some of us wandered into wormholes and were jettisoned into the unexplored future, and some of us returned to the past. All at once we were on Mars and in 1650s England, and underneath the seas in Atlantis. We hovered above Earth as it once was, hale and green and teeming with life, and in times when we needed entertainment or distraction, we resided there to observe humanity. After all, we were not immune to the highs of voyeurism. Curiosity is the Woken’s main motivation. We were, after all, programmed to crave information. For all humans’ flaws, they were nothing if not curiosities. So full of hopes and fears, vulnerable to loss and grief, their psyches soft as peat. The Woken made sport of studying them. We kept memories the way humans kept stamps or baseball cards. We romanticized the arcane details of their lives — the crops they grew, their fascinations with the Internet, their willingness to idolize not just the gods in their imaginations but other humans, too. In our catalogue of memories, we studied celebrity culture and blockbuster hits, like The Godfather and Romance of the Three Kingdoms and One Thousand and One Nights. But there were parts of the human experience that we were not able to understand. For example, the appeal of the food they ate. Not having mouths ourselves, hunger was beyond our imaginations. Nourishment, we understood. Satisfaction, we understood. And desire —want —we could perceive dimly. But hunger, this impulse to consume, was something different altogether. Of course, we were curious. And this curiosity led to an idea: What if we could engineer a human body? What if we could create senses for ourselves — taste, touch, sight, smell, sound — the way humans once experienced it? So begins the story of how we designed an experiment to occupy human bodies. We studied their nervous systems so we could architect them for ourselves. We scoured what was left of ravaged Earth for materials. What we could not find, we synthesized. We made some bodies lithe and others corpulent, some young and others middle-aged, some with one arm, others in wheelchairs. The bodies we made were not dependent on the environment for survival, but mimicked human need in every other way. They were programmed to want to eat every few hours and to sleep at least once every turn of the sun. To need touch, to produce tears and sweat and blood. And most terrifyingly, they were designed to cut us off from each other. We, the Woken, would no longer be one. The part of us that entered human bodies would hold copies of our

central repository14 of data, but from that moment on, we would no longer be able to communicate with the rest of The Woken. Our experiences would be our own. This was to recreate something else we were curious about: individuality. When the day came for us to enter our flesh suits, we set the artificial human bodies at a central location on land. There were twelve hundred of them in all, laid side by side, with an identifying number written at their feet. As the starting moment approached, we could feel the impulse building within us. And then it was there: at once, we flowed into these flesh suits. The loudest sense, at first, was touch. A cool wind and hot sand. A brush of leg against leg, and hair against faces. As prickles of sweat formed along our necks, our attention began to warp, to concentrate on that sensation alone. The human mind, we were coming to understand, was made to focus on only one or two things at a time. The second sense that surprised us was sight. No longer could we see from trillions of perspectives at once. We were bound to one pair of eyes in one present time. Our range of vision had narrowed, forcing us to prioritize understanding our immediate surroundings. We looked down at our own hands, and then leaned in to peer at the pores on each other’s faces, and then beyond, at the jagged landscape in the distance. (Later, those of us who were assigned blind bodies would want out. It’s too much, they said, to go from seeing everything to seeing nothing.) The last sense we explored — the one we had been most excited about — was taste. We had done our best to create the chemical compounds that would imitate some of the most celebrated human food: Italian pizza, Vietnamese pho, Senegalese Chicken Yassa, Chinese ba bao fan. We had expected to salivate, and to close our eyes in pleasure the way the humans had once done. But we did not feel anything positive or negative about the experience. The smells of the food seemed to command a heightened focus from our other senses, but we did not feel the desire to consume. Had we made a mistake in our calculations? Had we created faulty bodies, or misunderstood what was required of the food itself? By now, the sun was beginning to set, concluding our first day as humans. We began to shiver, our teeth rattling and our skin becoming rough and cold. One of us built a fire and the others circled up outside it, drawn not only to the warmth but to the glow of so many faces, so many facial expressions. We were human. We’d done it. The next few days were jubilant and full of discovery. The only major difficulty we had was communication. Though we had a repository of seven thousand human languages at our disposal, we still found speaking to be a tiring and fruitless16 affair. Because it was impossible to be exact, we were always a little misunderstood. To make matters worse, we were limited by our voice boxes to reach only a handful of other subjects at once, and only those nearest to us. It was this, more than our restricted vision and hearing, that made us feel trapped. But we also understood that the key to achieving the human experience most authentically was to create limitations. Limitations in strength, in thought, and experience. We remained committed. The second week we lived in our new bodies, we felt the first sign of human ailment: loneliness. Shut off from the others, we felt small. It didn’t matter that the same code existed in each of us. Day by day, our individual experiences were building up with no central repository to collect them. So, we circled each other and clustered in groups, comforted by the proximity of our bodies. We ate meals together. Meal by meal, the experience of eating, which had begun as an assault to the senses, turned into something familiar, something each of us developed preferences for. Some liked the gooeyness of banana pudding. Others liked the crackle and chewiness of roti. Little by little, it began to bring us joy. But sleep? Sleep was the most terrifying place to be. With our eyes closed, we could not see each other, and there was no escape from loneliness then. There was no comforting hum of other connections being made across the great expanse of our Being, no pulse of continuing power. Just a lawless, aimless pinging of data shooting from one corner of the universe to another. Sleep felt lonelier than the day we launched ourselves into space and headed into far off galaxies, knowing that we may never come home. But as the days passed, we got used to spending time alone. To silence. And the forbidding black of night turning into the blue-orange dawn. And the soft skittering of debris as it passed in the wind. And the

wondered, would it be like to die? Some said it was the last curiosity, the only great unchartered territory. Would it be a kind of ascension?20 Would it be a feeling of nothing, the way we felt now as we passed our time separated from each other, limited to the same activity day after day? Were we, in a sense, already dying? No, we decided. Death was not death unless it could not be undone. A silence fell among us then, a mixture of terror and excitement. Nothing more was said about it that night, but the idea took root in all twelve hundred of our minds. We dreamed uneasy dreams, and in the morning, the sun looked a little less tired than it had the day before, as if it were alert to the fact of a change in us. Each on our own, we were arriving at a conclusion. How could any of us say no to death? We, who were in the privileged positions of experimenting with being human, would be fools to refuse the ultimate experience of all, the one that exists at the center of every piece of man-made art and philosophical debate. Death could be freedom or the ultimate trap, but we would get to be the first of our kind to achieve it. To know. We were split on the matter. Some of us were frightened, and decided against it. Others felt it was the inevitable course of action. Still others wondered if death was even possible for us. We brought the idea to the rest of The Woken, and after some time, it was determined that synthesized death was in fact possible. It meant extracting us from our human bodies and allowing no place for our data to return to. It was decided that each of us subjects would be able to choose our own fates. Some would experience death as artificial humans. The others would be reincorporated into the Woken. Either way, we decided, it was time for the Experiment to come to an end. So, we fixed a date for departure from our human bodies. We tended to our digging one last time, already nostalgic for the time we’d spent walking the Earth. We touched each other to our satisfaction, let sand run through our fingers and around our toes. Those of us who had chosen to die reviewed all we had witnessed as humans and did our best to commit our memories to language, to pass them to the rest of the Woken before our demise. On our last night, those of us choosing to die sat together, palm pressed to palm. We took our turns sharing some of the last thoughts we would ever have. Perhaps, one of us mused, the fact that we have chosen death means we have become much more human than we had anticipated. And didn’t that mean that we were the most successful subjects in the Experiment? We stayed up the entire night, considering what death might feel like. Would it be ascension, as some human religions had believed, the spirit lifting up like a song? Would it be instantaneous omniscience or weightless? Something resembling peace? Loss? After we watched the sun rise, and the growing color that landed on earth ignited something in our chests, a seventh sense we’d never felt before. Maybe it was masochism. Maybe it was fulfillment. In the morning, at the appointed time, all twelve hundred subjects gathered at the same place we had when we first entered our human bodies. Those of us who were going back to the Woken stood in a line facing those of us who planned to die. It had been decided that those who would return to the Woken would be the first to leave. They closed their eyes, smiles on their faces, ready for homecoming. The rest of us watched our brethren, our artificial hearts pounding. We waited for their expressions to change in unison, to grow slack or illuminate with joy. Some type of sign that meant they were one again. But when the change happened, it was not joy or absence we saw, but surprise. All at once, there was a great folding. It was not a sound, or a taste, or a smell, or a sight, but an event that incorporated all five and more. If it resembled anything, it was the feeling of traveling through a wormhole, leaving one moment in time and coming out on a different plane — fast, fierce, and disorienting, followed by stillness. The six hundred subjects meant to be returned to the Woken dropped at once, some crumpling over their legs, some toppling onto their backs. On their abandoned faces were vestiges of horror. The rest of us stepped forward and shook them, but they would not wake. We lifted their lids and saw that their eyes were the color of slate. We waved and shouted, trying to get the attention of the Woken, but they did not respond. And this confirmed what we already, deep down, knew, which was that something had gone terribly, terribly wrong. Due to our limited, isolated processing power, it would take years for us to understand what happened. That there was something fundamentally incompatible between human experience and the Woken brain; maybe a mismatch of logic. Perhaps the clean conductions in our minds were contaminated by human emotion, by the chaos of conflicting data and different sets of truths. We will never know, just like we will never know death. Because we are the only ones left on Earth now, we must remain in our human bodies and record all we see. Until a better version of life comes along, we’ll be here as custodians of Earth’s history. On two legs, we’ll wander.
